
                             _Yellowstone_
                                  via
                            Gallatin Gateway
                                MONTANA


                                  The
                               Milwaukee
                                  Road

              _The friendly Railroad of the friendly West_

[Illustration: Set in green lawns, the attractive and informal Gallatin
Gateway Inn is staffed by people imbued with the open-hearted spirit of
the West.]

[Illustration: You’ll feel at home here right from the moment you step
off the comfortable motor coach.]




      Start your glorious western vacation at GALLATIN GATEWAY INN


Composed in equal parts of natural beauty, mystery and fascination,
Yellowstone Park has long taken rank as one of America’s and the world’s
show places. Recently it has entertained as many as a million visitors
in a single summer.

Now _you_ are planning a Yellowstone vacation. We propose, in this
booklet, to give you a foretaste of the wonders that lie ahead. To show
you some of the advantages of entering the Park via the scenic Gallatin
Gateway, and to suggest the entertainment possibilities of a few extra
days spent at Gallatin Gateway Inn.

Gallatin Gateway Inn lies about thirty-five miles south of Three Forks,
Montana, on the mainline of The Milwaukee Road. The Inn was built by the
Railroad and is now privately operated for the convenience of
Yellowstone passengers as well as for the entertainment of guests who
wish to stay over for a short time.

Of modified Spanish design, the hospitable Inn is surrounded by the
green, irrigated meadows of the lovely Gallatin valley. In the
background rise the timber-clad mountains of the Bridger, Gallatin and
Madison ranges of the Montana Rockies.

At its elevation of almost 5,000 feet, the climate is ideal throughout
the summer months. There is a high percentage of bright, sunny days yet
it is always cool enough at night to enjoy the comfort of woolen
blankets.

Passengers for Yellowstone on The Milwaukee Road’s COLUMBIAN taking
regular Park tours have only an hour or two at the Inn. However,
passengers on the new Olympian HIAWATHA arrive at the Inn in
mid-afternoon and do not ordinarily leave for the Park till next day
after lunch. With a knowledge of the Inn and its facilities, you can
plan to take fullest advantage of your time there. And, of course, you
may decide to extend your stay.

Set in wide lawns and gardens, Gallatin Gateway Inn is a delightfully
comfortable place. It has bright, airy bedrooms, a spacious two-story
living room, a sun-lit dining room and the friendly Corral cocktail
lounge. The food is procured from the Inn’s own gardens, from nearby
farms and ranches, and from markets along the route of The Milwaukee
Road. Prepared by skilled chefs and expertly served, it is guaranteed to
be just right for the hearty appetites generated by mountain air.

[Illustration: Outdoor activities and mountain air are a combination
that make Gallatin Inn’s famous food taste even better.]

[Illustration: The bedrooms, far right, are airy and comfortable.]

Your genial host at Gallatin Gateway Inn combines a full understanding
of hotel operation with an intimate knowledge of the surrounding
country. His staff takes pride in seeing that you enjoy every minute of
your stay.

On your way to or from Yellowstone, a few days at the Inn will prove a
pleasant interlude. You can spend those days in quiet loafing, in active
sports, or in making exploratory trips.

The swift flowing Gallatin river offers fine trout fishing just a short
walk from the door. Archery, clock golf and tennis may be enjoyed right
on the spacious grounds. Whatever you do you’ll like the comfort and the
congenial atmosphere of Gallatin Gateway Inn.

[Illustration: Relaxing view.]

[Illustration: The spacious, two-story lounge has an open fireplace,
piano, and plenty of easy chairs. Writing desks, too, to catch up on
postcards and letters.]

[Illustration: The Gallatin valley is a long succession of lovely
prospects.]

[Illustration: Here the camera catches an S-curve in the river at
Sagebrush Point. The full 80 miles from Gallatin Gateway to Yellowstone
are a scenic delight that you’ll long remember.]




                           OFF TO YELLOWSTONE


Chance turned the footsteps of the first white man toward Yellowstone.
In 1807, John Colter, a member of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, was
wounded in an Indian battle near Jackson Hole. In escaping, he journeyed
northward and penetrated Yellowstone as far as what is now known as
Tower Falls.

More than twenty years later, Jim Bridger, a famous frontier guide, also
entered the region that had come to be known as “Colter’s Hell” and
verified the fantastic tales of his predecessor. But even then, no one
accepted the story. Colter and Bridger were in the position of Marco
Polo who had discovered an empire so strange that its very existence was
doubted.

Not until 1870, when a public exploring party made a thorough study of
the region, were its wonders accepted as fact. Then, action quickly
followed. In 1872 a bill was introduced before congress and speedily
passed, that established Yellowstone as the first of our National Parks.
A vast rectangle of 3,438 square miles lying in the northwest corner of
Wyoming and overlapping into Montana and Idaho, Yellowstone is a broad,
volcanic plateau with an average elevation of 8,000 feet, and with
mountain peaks in and around the park rising as high as ten and twelve
thousand feet ... more than two million enchanted acres with the
greatest and most varied array of wonders in all the earth.

[Illustration: Luggage and cars.]

But all this is recent history. Take a brief look at the amazing past of
Yellowstone. Millions of years ago, the present high plateau was a
parched, arid plain sheltered behind the buttresses of the continent’s
two great mountain ranges—Appalachia in the East and Cascadia in the
West. Slowly, the land sank and Yellowstone was buried a hundred fathoms
deep under the arctic waters of the Sundance Sea. As the invading waters
retreated, a shift in temperature changed Yellowstone into a huge
subtropical marsh where giant dinosaurs drowsed and fed in the green
half-light that filtered down through jungle trees.

The next great geologic change saw Yellowstone thrust skyward by the
slow buckling of earth’s crust ... scorched and shaken by a million
years of volcanic activity ... covered by a vast sea of molten rhyolite.
The hot lava slowly cooled and was in turn engulfed by creeping rivers
of blue-green glacial ice.

As this new ice age withdrew, countless sediment-bearing streams roared
down from the melting glaciers and, aided by the bitter winds of high
places, began carving Yellowstone into its present form.

[Illustration: The Cathedrals are natural Gothic spires of hard stone
that resisted erosion by the river when it carved the deep gorge of
Gallatin Canyon. These formations are especially beautiful under a
Montana moon.]

[Illustration: Man with camera.]

Even today, Yellowstone is a “young” land that is undergoing relatively
rapid changes. The subterranean heat that causes its geyser activity is
slowly subsiding.

Old geysers die out and new ones grow in power and regularity.
Imperceptibly, the canyons deepen, and erosion carves new patterns on
rocky walls.

This is the land ... rich in forests and wild life, and gemmed with
sparkling mountain lakes ... that has been set aside for the perpetual
enjoyment of our people. This is Yellowstone, oldest and greatest of
America’s National Parks.

Your trip to Yellowstone via The Milwaukee Road takes you through the
most spectacular of all entrances—Gallatin Gateway.

You leave the train at Three Forks, Montana, on the main
transcontinental line of The Milwaukee Road. Just outside of town the
Gallatin, Madison and Jefferson rivers flow together to form the
headwaters of the mighty Missouri.

Lewis and Clark’s expedition camped here in 1805 on their way to the
Pacific Northwest. There is a bronze tablet in the town park dedicated
to Sacajawea, the Indian girl who guided the explorers. Three Forks was
established as a trading post for the Missouri Fur Company in 1810.

[Illustration: Pale shades of gray, buff, yellow and orange-red give
rich color to the face of Sheep Mountain in Gallatin Canyon. Dark
conifers cling to the lower slopes.]

Leaving the train, you board a motor coach for a delightful drive of a
little over an hour to Gallatin Gateway Inn.

[Illustration: Accurately carved by a strange quirk of nature, Pulpit
Rock towers high above the Gallatin Valley. Formations of this kind are
not too unusual, and result when a core of hard rock is surrounded by
softer material.]

[Illustration: Mountain view.]

[Illustration: Yellowstone-bound, a Park motor coach starts up the
Gallatin Valley with Castle Rock in the background. The comfortable
buses have roll-back tops that permit full views of the surrounding
rocky walls.]

[Illustration: Riverside Geyser is an irregular performer that sends its
plume-like jet diagonally out over the Firehole River. Higher up, the
Firehole is a good fishing stream, but here its waters are strongly
charged with minerals from the geysers and hot springs.]

[Illustration: Geyser view.]

[Illustration: A bus load of visitors has stopped for a look at Old
Faithful shooting its mighty column skyward.]

[Illustration: The Ranger at the far right indicates one of the hundreds
of tinted pools that dot the geyser basins.]


                       First Stop ... Geyserland

One of the chief attractions of entering Yellowstone via Gallatin
Gateway is the 80 mile motor trip through glorious mountain country that
you enjoy without extra charge.

Promptly after lunch, you leave Gallatin Gateway Inn in one of the
luxurious motor coaches of the Yellowstone Park Company and begin the
trip southward.

In a short time you enter spectacular Gallatin Canyon. Just beyond
Roaring Creek lie the huge, eroded battlements of Castle and Cathedral
Rocks, majestic cliffs that dwarf the tiny river flowing swiftly at
their base. This is the famed Montana dude ranch country, and you
glimpse many of the ranches in the innumerable little valleys that are
tributary to the Gallatin.

You’ll see Sagebrush Point where the Gallatin flows in a graceful
S-curve hundreds of feet below the road ... the broad cone of Lone
Mountain rising to a height of ten thousand feet and Pulpit Rock, oddly
and accurately carved by some freak of Nature.

Perhaps you’ll catch sight of a moose feeding on lily roots in a pond
beside the road, or a band of elk emerging warily from the timber. Over
there is a new beaver dam, and that gray shadow skirting the road is a
coyote.

[Illustration: Feeding a fawn.]

[Illustration: Old Faithful Inn is said to be one of the highest and
largest log buildings in the world. Its pleasantly rustic public rooms
have long made it a favorite with Park visitors. Facilities are
exceptionally complete.]

Crossing dozens of creeks with picturesque, western names, you enter the
boundaries of Yellowstone. Again leaving the Park, the road winds
through the Madison National Forest, skirts Hebgen Lake, crosses the
Madison and brings you to West Yellowstone—your official entrance to the
Park.

[Illustration: Its curiously formed cone has earned it the name of
Grotto Geyser. In its two major basins, Yellowstone has more active
geysers than all the rest of the world, but you’ll never tire of their
varied fascination.]

[Illustration: Cowboy with guitar.]

The Motor trip from Gallatin Gateway is a perfect introduction to
Yellowstone, and shows you country unlike any within the Park.


                        Here Comes Old Faithful

From West Yellowstone, the route follows the Madison through Christmas
Tree Park, and then down the lovely valley of the Firehole River into
geyserland. There are more geysers in Yellowstone than in all the rest
of the world, and the greatest of them are here in the Lower and Upper
Basins. The hiss of steam, low, subterranean mutterings and the roar of
geysers in action make this landscape a scene from the Inferno. You see
Fountain, Great Fountain, Riverside and Giant geysers, Morning Glory
Pool and Fountain Paint Pot, and reach Old Faithful for dinner and the
night.

The most famous geyser in the world, Old Faithful may be depended upon
to stage its almost hourly shows for your special benefit. Approximately
every sixty-five minutes it growls and hisses for a moment, and then
leaps into action sending its glorious plume of boiling water 120 or
more feet into the sky.

Old Faithful is a perfect spot for your first stay in Yellowstone and
offers a variety of attractions that will make your time here seem all
too short. Besides the many nearby geysers, you will see the iridescent
turquoise of Morning Glory Pool with its flower-tinted cone ... Black
Sand Pool and Sapphire Springs ... Firehole Lake with its flame-like
streamers of gas bubbling to the surface, Chinaman Pool and numerous
other steaming pools and springs.

[Illustration: Yellowstone’s Ranger-Naturalists are always on hand to
give interesting explanations of the numberless wonders of the Park.]

[Illustration: Shopping for souvenirs.]

[Illustration: Giant Geyser, though an irregular performer, is the
largest in the Park. At full discharge it sends its huge stream of
boiling water and steam from 200 to 250 feet in the air. The rumble and
roar of the geysers can be heard for long distances in the clear
mountain air.]

[Illustration: Across the Firehole River clouds of drifting steam mark
the Firehole Geyser Basin—another reason why beautiful Yellowstone is
the most photographed of our National Parks.]

There is an enclosed swimming pool and a museum. A variety of short
walking trips may be taken with the ranger-naturalists, and longer trips
made on horseback with colorful wranglers who know the phenomena of the
Park.

Old Faithful Inn itself is built wholly of native materials. Within its
friendly walls, you dine, dance, play and meet congenial fellow
travelers before the great open fireplace.

The following day, your caravan moves on from Old Faithful past the
beautiful Kepler Cascades of the Firehole, and over the Continental
Divide. Here is the Rocky Mountain watershed that sends the rivers on
one side flowing down to the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico, and on the
other side, to the Pacific. To the south lie Shoshone Lake and the snowy
peaks of the Teton range.


                        Lovely Yellowstone Lake

At Thumb, the road descends to the shore of Yellowstone Lake. 7,730 feet
above sea level, this huge lake covering more than 130 square miles, is
America’s highest navigable body of water. Past Fishing Cone, the road
skirts the shore of the Lake for many miles to the mouth of the
Yellowstone River. Many Yellowstone visitors enjoy fishing or boating on
the lake.

Big, hard-fighting trout of several species inhabit the deep,
perpetually cold waters of the lake, and afford the finest kind of
sport. Boats, guides and fishing tackle are available.

[Illustration: Here is part of the crowd clustered around Old Faithful
as it nears time for an eruption. This famous geyser discharges with
almost clock-like regularity at intervals of about 65 minutes.]

There are also a number of modern speedboats that were painstakingly
hauled up to the lake. These mahogany beauties make regular passenger
trips and give a real thrill as they race over the sparkling water.
Yellowstone Lake is one of the few places in America where you may still
see wild swans—the last survivors of once-numerous flocks of these
majestic birds. Pelicans are plentiful on Molly Island.

[Illustration: Mile-and-a-half high Yellowstone Lake is ringed by the
snow-capped Absaroka mountains.]

But now our tour continues. Winding through beautiful Hayden Valley, the
road continues, for the most part, close beside the Yellowstone River
and then past Mud Volcano. Soon we cross over Chittenden Bridge, pass
the Upper and Lower Falls and reach hospitable Canyon Hotel that is
superbly situated at the head of the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone.

[Illustration: Successful fishermen.]

[Illustration: Pine trees cling precariously to the rocky walls of
Kepler Cascades where the Firehole River drops down a series of
picturesque falls and rapids.]

[Illustration: At the head of the Grand Canyon, the Yellowstone River
roars thunderously down the great falls. Here, from viewpoints on either
side of the canyon, is one of the most gloriously colorful scenes on
this continent.]

[Illustration: Photographing the great falls of the Yellowstone River.]


              Magnificently Colorful ... the Grand Canyon

To many visitors, the Grand Canyon is the highpoint of Yellowstone. And
well it may be, for the views from Artist or Inspiration Points are
scarcely rivaled in all the world. A third of a mile wide and more than
a thousand feet deep, the mighty gorge has been fantastically carved by
the rushing waters of the Yellowstone River. Ranging in tone from pale
lemon to tawny buff, the rock walls of the canyon are splashed with a
hundred shades of crimson, blue and green—a glorious play of color that
changes hourly with the passage of the sun. And far down at the bottom
winds the jade green ribbon of the Yellowstone. Muted by distance, you
hear the thunder of the Great Falls where the river leaps out and down,
308 feet into the gorge.

To those who have seen it, the Canyon remains one of the scenic
highlights of a lifetime. Warm yet delicate in coloring, big but not so
big that it staggers the imagination, the gorge is as perfect and
complete as a flawless gem.

Leaving Canyon Hotel, you continue northward through Dunraven Pass,
where the road climbs the shoulder of Mt. Washburn. If you wish, you may
take the more spectacular route to the very summit of the 10,317 foot
mountain for the finest panorama of the Park.

Soon the road rejoins the Yellowstone River and you see Tower Falls.
Flowing down from the high plateau, Tower Creek plunges down a 132-foot
drop to join the Yellowstone in its long course eastward. Needle-like
volcanic rocks stand sentinel at the head of the falls and nearby are
strange buttresses of hard basalt forming palisades as regular as if
they had been cut by man.

A little farther up the road is a forest of petrified trees. These
fallen giants of hard stone reproduce, in astonishing detail and in a
variety of rich colors, the bark and wood fibers of which they were once
composed.

[Illustration: Painting the waterfall.]

[Illustration: Downstream from the main part of the canyon, the
Yellowstone River winds in a narrow ribbon through the gray and buff
walls of a rocky gorge. With the changing light, the river varies from
silver to jade green.]

[Illustration: Not far from Chittenden Bridge, the Yellowstone plunges
down the Upper Falls. Seen from the lookout platform or from the camera
viewpoint here, the fury and power of the cataract is indescribably
impressive.]

[Illustration: Steps on the trail.]

[Illustration: Looking northeast from Inspiration Point, the canyon of
the Yellowstone spreads its splendor before you. Do an about-face here
and the view is toward the lower falls. Rapids lace the dark water with
creamy foam.]

[Illustration: Automobile tourists.]

[Illustration: Pulpit Terrace at Mammoth Hot Springs has been built up
from the mineral laden waters of hot springs. Ashy white in its dry,
natural state, the rocky walls are tinted rainbow colors by living algae
in the waters.]

[Illustration: Roadside bear.]


                          Fantasy in Stone ...
                            Mammoth Terrace

Built up and sculptured by the hot mineral waters, the smooth terraces
of white stone at Mammoth Hot Springs are given a thousand delicate
tints of vermillion, orange, pink and yellow by the living algae in the
waters. You see Pulpit Terrace, Minerva, Cleopatra, White Elephant and
the Devil’s Kitchen.

[Illustration: Here is huge Jupiter Terrace. These colorful formations
change constantly in appearance as one spring temporarily dries up and
another begins to flow. The more water, the more color is the general
rule.]

Southward from Mammoth Hot Springs is Norris Geyser Basin with its
collection of smaller geysers, hot springs and other phenomena. Here you
will see the Black Growler, emitting superheated steam at a temperature
of 284 degrees. The Chocolate Pots just beyond, demonstrate the
remarkable chemical coloring from which they derive their name.

[Illustration: From a bluff just north of the community the buildings of
Mammoth Hot Springs are spread before the camera. This is the
administration center for Yellowstone Park, and, with the tourist
facilities, comprises a small town in itself.]

Depending on the gateway selected for exit from the Park, schedules of
Park tours vary slightly. Complete itineraries for the various tours are
shown elsewhere in this book.

This brief summary is a far from complete outline of what may be seen
and done in Yellowstone. You might profitably spend an entire summer
within the confines of the Park or—as many do—come back repeatedly.


                         Wild Life in Abundance

Yellowstone is a great wild animal refuge where the game is protected
and therefore quite unafraid of humans. You will see dozens and dozens
of the famous bears whose clumsy antics are an unfailing source of
amusement. Among them is the grizzly bear, rightfully the most respected
of all the wild animals. In meeting bears on the roads and paths, never
tease the animals with food.

Almost anywhere in the Park you may catch glimpses of deer, and perhaps
of buffalo, antelope, elk and mountain sheep as well as smaller animals
such as marmots, beaver and chipmunks. You will have ample opportunity
to take short walking trips. You can fish and swim; join community
singing around huge campfires; listen to lectures on the geology and
animal life of the Park; see informal entertainments by the boys and
girls who staff the lodges and hotels; join in the fun of informal
dances.

Whether you have little time or much, no finer vacation spot exists than
magnificent, incredible Yellowstone. Boundless in wonders and in
hospitality, this is your Park, your playground ... the magic land where
dreams come true.

[Illustration: Almost like man-made rice fields are these dikes and
terraces engineered by nature from minerals carried in the waters of the
hot springs.]


                            Yellowstone Fun

[Illustration: 1. A tour party with a Ranger guide starts through Old
Faithful geyser basin.]

[Illustration: 2. Dances and friendly gatherings are nightly features at
the hotels and lodges.]

[Illustration: 3. This camera fan has moved in for a close-up of a
good-sized black bear.]

[Illustration: 4. Gamy, solid-fleshed trout like these reward the
fisherman in Yellowstone Lake.]

[Illustration: 5. The horns of this young bull elk are “in the velvet”
during the summer.]

[Illustration: This relief map of Yellowstone shows all the features of
the Park, the road from Gallatin Gateway Inn—the geyser basin, the road
over the loop of the Continental Divide, the lake, the river and the
circle of road up to Mammoth Hot Springs.]

[Illustration: Geysers are the trademark of Yellowstone. Here is another
view of a steaming basin.]

[Illustration: Plenty of trout in the lakes and rivers.]

[Illustration: Yellowstone visitors used to ride in stages like this.]

[Illustration: Castle Geyser at ease.]

[Illustration: Indian Chiefs of the Nez Perce Tribe.]




                   Park Motor Transportation Schedule


  Key Code for Meals:
  A: Breakfast
  B: Lunch
  C: Dinner
  D: Lodging


                    In and out the GALLATIN GATEWAY

[Illustration: In and out the GALLATIN GATEWAY]

     1st Day
  Lv. Gallatin Gateway                       1:00 P.M.   B
  Ar. Old Faithful                           6:11 P.M.   CD
     2nd Day
  Lv. Old Faithful                           1:30 P.M.   AB
  Ar. Grand Canyon (Via Artist Point)        4:55 P.M.   CD
     3rd Day
  Lv. Grand Canyon (Tower Falls Side         8:20 A.M.   A
    Trip)
  Ar. Grand Canyon                          10:09 A.M.   B
  Lv. Grand Canyon                           1:00 P.M.
  Ar. West Yellowstone                       2:40 P.M.
  Lv. West Yellowstone                       3:00 P.M.
  Ar. Gallatin Gateway                       5:19 P.M.   C


                In Gallatin Gateway out West Yellowstone

[Illustration: In Gallatin Gateway out West Yellowstone]

     1st Day
  Lv. Gallatin Gateway                       1:00 P.M.   B
  Ar. Old Faithful                           6:11 P.M.   CD
     2nd Day
  Lv. Old Faithful                           1:30 P.M.   AB
  Ar. Grand Canyon (Via Artist Point)        4:55 P.M.   CD
     3rd Day
  Lv. Grand Canyon                           9:45 A.M.   A
  Ar. Mammoth Hot Springs                   12:31 P.M.   B
  Lv. Mammoth Hot Springs                    2:30 P.M.
  Ar. West Yellowstone                       5:08 P.M.   C


                      In Gallatin Gateway out Cody

[Illustration: In Gallatin Gateway out Cody]

     1st Day
  Lv. Gallatin Gateway                       1:00 P.M.   B
  Ar. Old Faithful                           6:11 P.M.   CD
     2nd Day
  Lv. Old Faithful                           8:30 A.M.   A
  Ar. Grand Canyon (Via Artist Point)       11:55 A.M.   B
  Lv. Grand Canyon                           2:30 P.M.
  Ar. Mammoth Hot Springs                    5:16 P.M.   CD
     3rd Day
  Lv. Mammoth Hot Springs                    8:15 A.M.   A
  Ar. Grand Canyon                          10:21 A.M.   B
  Lv. Grand Canyon                           1:30 P.M.
  Ar. Cody Inn                               5:51 P.M.   C


                    In Gallatin Gateway out Gardiner

[Illustration: In Gallatin Gateway out Gardiner]

     1st Day
  Lv. Gallatin Gateway                       1:00 P.M.   B
  Ar. Old Faithful                           6:11 P.M.   CD
     2nd Day
  Lv. Old Faithful                           1:30 P.M.   AB
  Ar. Grand Canyon (Via Artist Point)        4:55 P.M.   CD
     3rd Day
  Lv. Grand Canyon                           2:30 P.M.   AB
  Ar. Mammoth Hot Springs                    5:16 P.M.   C
  Lv. Mammoth Hot Springs                    7:00 P.M.
  Ar. Gardiner                               7:20 P.M.

[Illustration: Rock pinnacles cluster around Tower Falls.]

[Illustration: Take a speedboat ride on Yellowstone Lake.]

[Illustration: East and West flow the rivers of the continent.]

[Illustration: The Wedding Cake rises from a hot spring.]

[Illustration: Super dome railroad car.]




                              SUPER DOMES
                     NOW ON THE _OLYMPIAN Hiawatha_


Here’s extra fun on your trip to Yellowstone via The Milwaukee Road. The
super-speed Olympian Hiawatha—only one night en route from
Chicago—carries America’s first full length domes, the only domes to the
Pacific Northwest.

68 individual lookout seats on the upper deck provide glorious views of
the palisades of the Mississippi, the Belt Mountains, Montana Canyon and
the source of the Missouri near Three Forks. Delightful Cafe Lounge on
the lower deck of the Super Dome car for beverages and snacks. Entire
car is open to all passengers.

Olympian Hiawatha equipment includes private-room cars with the unique
Skytop Lounge. Double bedrooms and roomettes are completely and
luxuriously appointed. Adjoining bedrooms open to form connecting
suites.

Touralux sleepers, built exclusively for this service, offer berth
comfort and privacy at reduced cost. Reserved seat Luxurest coaches have
40 individual chairs with leg rests; spacious lounge-dressing rooms for
men and for women. Dining car features famous Milwaukee Road meals. All
cars are air conditioned and wired for radio or station announcements.


                       The electrified COLUMBIAN

Accommodations in air conditioned standard Pullman sleepers, tourist
sleepers and Hiawatha-type coaches. Electric operation through the Belt
Mountains and Montana Canyon.

Westbound passengers for Yellowstone on the Columbian reach Three Forks
in the morning, have lunch at Gallatin Gateway Inn and leave for the
Park immediately afterward. On the Olympian Hiawatha, you reach Three
Forks in mid-afternoon and remain at the Inn until after lunch the
following day. By eliminating the stay at the Inn, you save money
traveling on the Columbian. There is also some saving of time from
Chicago despite the more leisurely schedule of this train.

[Illustration: Passenger train.]




                          GENERAL INFORMATION


             Prepaid, All-Expense Tours Personally Escorted

Many Yellowstone Park travelers prefer to travel with special parties of
congenial people under the popular all-expense plan. These tours will be
operated during the Yellowstone Park season and those desiring to join
one of the parties should call on any of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St.
Paul and Pacific Railroad travel bureaus shown on the inside back cover
of this booklet or write direct to Mr. H. Sengstacken, Passenger Traffic
Manager, The Milwaukee Road, Union Station, Chicago 6, Ill.


                            The Park Season

The regular Park season is June 22nd to September 8th.


                          Motor Transportation

The Yellowstone Park Company, under contract with the Government
operates a transportation line between the Park entrances and the
various hotels and points of interest.


                                 Hotels

All service is under the supervision of the Government and is maintained
at a high standard at rates fixed by the Government.

Each hotel is individual in character and architecture, completely and
modernly equipped.

Old Faithful Inn is a striking structure of logs and stone. Its unusual
lobby is 75 feet square and 92 feet high to the peak of the roof, with
balconies around three sides.

Old Faithful Geyser is nearby the Inn, and not far away are many other
geysers too numerous to mention here.

The Canyon Hotel, one of the finest hotels in the country with every
comfort and convenience, is particularly well known for its spacious and
beautiful plate-glass enclosed lounge. It has a wonderful setting high
up on one side of Yellowstone Canyon, not far from the Lower Falls.

Mammoth Hot Springs hotel is most modern in style and appointments.


                              The Climate

Far from the least attraction of an invigorating outing is the climate.
An average elevation of 8,000 feet brings a clear and bracing
atmosphere. Hot mineral baths and outdoor sleeping, best of Nature’s
medicines, may be enjoyed throughout the season. During the tourist
season the mean average temperature ranges from 54° to 64° with a
maximum of 88°. There is little choice as to the best time for visiting
the Park. Early summer finds more snow in the mountains; August and
September bring floral decorations in all their beauty and charm.


                              What to Wear

Warm clothing should be worn, and one should be prepared for sudden
changes of temperature common at an altitude of 7,500 feet. Men should
have medium weight overcoats and sweaters, and women should have coats
or sweaters. Slacks or riding breeches are recommended for both men and
women. Stout shoes should be worn as they are most comfortable and best
suited for walking about the geysers, terraces and other formations.
Tinted glasses, serviceable gloves and field glasses will be found
useful.


                          Park Administration

Yellowstone, like all other National Parks, is under the supervision of
the National Park Service, with a local superintendent located at
Mammoth Hot Springs, headquarters of the Park administration.


                            Church Services

Religious services are conducted at convenient locations in the park.
Information provided at hotel desks.


                     Medical Service in Yellowstone

Physicians and surgeons with headquarters at Mammoth Hot Springs are
available for call to any place in the Park. Trained nurses and a
dispensary are at each of the hotels in the Park. At Mammoth is a
well-equipped hospital with skilled personnel.


                     Saddle Horse Trips and Guides

Saddle horses, as well as competent guides, are available at all hotels
and lodges at established rates made by the National Park Service. Those
who desire to do so may get far off the beaten path and into the more
remote and scenic regions of the Park.


                Cost of Park Tour from Gallatin Gateway

    (which will be added to the excursion fare to Gallatin Gateway)

          Including Motor Transportation and Meals and Lodging

  For Adults and children 12 years old           $46.75
    and over
  For children 8 years old and under 12           34.25
    years
  For children under 8 years                      24.00

                          (Federal tax extra)

Longer time than is provided by the regular “two-and-one-half days’”
tour may be spent at the stopover points, if desired. For such
additional time, meals and lodging are on the basis of $9.00 to $12.00
per day, American plan. (Children’s Tickets for motor transportation and
hotel accommodations are sold at Park entrances only.)


                                Baggage

The Yellowstone Park Company will carry free, two pieces of hand baggage
for each person, not to exceed sixty pounds in total weight, with a
limited liability of $25.00 for each piece for loss or damage.
Passengers desiring additional protection may obtain an insurance policy
at small cost from the transportation agent at Gallatin Gateway. Trunks
cannot be transported in the automobiles. Tourists contemplating a
prolonged trip through the Park can make arrangements with
representatives of the Transportation Company at Gallatin Gateway for
the forwarding of trunks.

Railroads store baggage free at Gallatin Gateway, Three Forks, Butte,
Livingston, Gardiner, Cody, Frannie or Billings, West Yellowstone,
Pocatello, Idaho Falls, Ogden or Salt Lake City, for actual length of
time spent in the Park. Baggage may be checked to Gallatin Gateway,
Gardiner, Cody or West Yellowstone.

  _Passengers entering the Park via one station and leaving via another
  can make arrangements for free checking of baggage to station via
  which they leave the Park._




                 Return via Salt Lake City and Colorado


Many rail travelers from the East and Middle West add to the enjoyment
of their Yellowstone tour by returning over a different route. You can
plan your trip to continue southward from West Yellowstone to Salt Lake
City, then east through Colorado and so home again.

Salt Lake City, originally settled and built by the Mormons, is a clean
and attractive city that rates high in tourist interest. The focal
point, of course, is the great square containing the handsome Mormon
Temple and the smaller Tabernacle with its barrel-vaulted, wooden roof.
Organ recitals are held regularly in this building.

Many brief tours are available to points of outstanding interest. You
will want to visit Saltair on the shores of Great Salt Lake and probably
to take a swim in the amazingly buoyant waters. You also see the vast
and arid salt fields on this trip. Another tour might well be through
Bingham Canyon into the mining country where you see the world’s largest
open pit copper mine.

From Salt Lake City, one of the routes east takes you through the
world-renowned Royal Gorge of the Arkansas River, one of the great
scenic thrills of the West. Another scenic route east takes you through
Cheyenne.

From Colorado Springs, the “Sunshine City”, motor tours take you through
the beautiful residential section and over High Mesa to the colorful
Garden of the Gods. Then on to Manitou, Seven Falls, Cheyenne Mountain,
the Will Rogers Shrine Memorial, through Ute Pass and up Pyramid
Mountain for a superb view of Pikes Peak and its sisters in the Rockies.

Denver, the mile-high city, has a superb system of parks, the Buffalo
Bill Memorial Museum and the tomb of Buffalo Bill. Scenic drives offer
extraordinary views into Clear Creek Canyon, Bear Creek Canyon and the
gorgeous Red Rocks.

Fast streamliners provide excellent rail service between Denver,
Colorado Springs and Chicago.

[Illustration: Mormon Tabernacle Square in Salt Lake City]

[Illustration: Floating is easy in Great Salt Lake]

[Illustration: City and County Building in Denver]

[Illustration: Pike’s Peak from Garden of the Gods]

[Illustration: Railroad route map.]




                     TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAUS


  Aberdeen, S. D., “_Milwaukee_” Station, 1 North Main St.    Phone 2219
  A. F. Reuland                                 Division Passenger Agent
  Atlanta 3, Ga., 521-522 Healey Bldg.                 Phone Walnut 6585
  Paul A. Larson                                           General Agent
  Beloit, Wis., “_Milwaukee_” Station                  Phone College 257
  M. M. Marske                                Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Boston 8, Mass., 294 Washington St.               Phone Liberty 2-9812
  W. D. Goss                                               General Agent
  Buffalo 3, N. Y., 295 Main St.                   Phone Washington 0634
  W. A. Stauffer                                           General Agent
  Butte, Mont., “_Milwaukee_” Station                         Phone 3251
  V. E. Straus                         Assistant General Passenger Agent
  Cedar Rapids, Iowa, “_Milwaukee_” Station, 401 First Ave. S. E.  Phone
                                                                    6027
  B. P. Dvorak                                Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Chicago 3, Ill., 711-100 West Monroe Bldg.        Phone Central 6-7600
  V. L. Hitzfeld                      General Agent Passenger Department
  R. V. Gertz, 179 W. Jackson Blvd., Zone 4            City Ticket Agent
  Cincinnati 2, Ohio, 324 Dixie Terminal       Phones Garfield 5247-5248
  R. T. Dempsey                                            General Agent
  Cleveland 14, Ohio, 925 Euclid Ave.                  Phone Main 1-2457
  R. G. Davisson                                           General Agent
  Clinton, Iowa, 60 Fourth Ave.                                Phone 712
  M. O. Schorr                                           Passenger Agent
  Council Bluffs, Iowa, 1300 South 6th St.                    Phone 2767
  J. I. McGuire                                                    Agent
  Davenport, Iowa, Union Station, Foot Harrison St.         Phone 2-5304
  A. T. Paulsen                               Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Des Moines 9, Iowa, Union Station, 5th & Cherry Sts.      Phone 3-6277
  H. H. Jacobs                                  Division Passenger Agent
  Detroit 26, Mich., 144 W. Lafayette Blvd.    Phones Woodward 2-3716-17
  W. G. Lacey                                              General Agent
  Dubuque, Iowa, “_Milwaukee_” Sta., 3rd St. and Central Ave.      Phone
                                                                  2-1559
  R. J. Kemp                                  Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Duluth 2, Minn., 420 West Superior St.      Phones 2-0524, Sup. 2-2502
  P. P. Gehrig                                             General Agent
  Evanston, Ill., 909 Church St.                 Phone University 4-1000
  H. F. Bitz                                                       Agent
  Excelsior Springs, Mo., “_Milwaukee_” Station                Phone 177
  H. F. Owen                                  Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Freeport, Ill., “_Milwaukee_” Station, 410 E. Stephenson St.     Phone
                                                               Main 1302
  R. L. Fuller                                              Ticket Agent
  Green Bay, Wis., “_Milwaukee_” Station, End S. Wash. St.   Phone Adams
                                                                     866
  E. D. Crim                                  Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Indianapolis 4, Ind., 420 Board of Trade Bldg.     Phone Franklin 7582
  S. P. Elmalie                                            General Agent
  Janesville, Wis., “_Milwaukee_” Station, 225 N. High St.    Phone 6946
  J. M. Brown                                 Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Kansas City 6, Mo., 646 Board of Trade Bldg.         Phone Victor 6390
  C. J. Peck, Jr.                               District Passenger Agent
  La Crosse, Wis., “_Milwaukee_” Sta.,
      St. Andrew & Caledonia Sts.                           Phone 2-7151
  A. O. Sundet                                              Ticket Agent
  Los Angeles 14, Calif., 210 W. Seventh St.          Phone Trinity 9555
  R. B. Amis                                               General Agent
  Madison 3, Wis., “_Milwaukee_” Station                    Phone 5-4561
  R. K. Hurlbut                                 District Passenger Agent
  Mason City, Iowa, “_Milwaukee_” Station                       Phone 82
  H. W. Frazee                                Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Miles City, Mont., “_Milwaukee_” Station, No. 10th St.       Phone 362
  W. C. Boyle                                 Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Milwaukee 2, Wis., 210 E. Wisconsin Ave.             Phone Daly 8-1864
  C. F. Dahnke                         Assistant General Passenger Agent
  J. P. Paulus, Station Ticket Agent, 4th Ward Pk. Phone BRoadway 1-6120
  Minneapolis 1, Minn., “_Milwaukee_” Station        Phone Fillmore 1616
  H. M. Larson                         Assistant General Passenger Agent
  D. G. McMillan, 700 Marquette Ave.        G.A.P.D. Phone Fillmore 1616
  S. F. Luce, Station Ticket Agent, 3rd Ave. So.     Phone Fillmore 1616
  Missoula, Mont., “_Milwaukee_” Station              Phones 3186 & 6639
  G. B. Baker                                 Passenger and Ticket Agent
  New Orleans 12, La., 210 Baronne St.                 Phone TUlane 5678
  C. T. Carter                                             General Agent
  New York 17, N. Y., 122 East 42nd St.              Phone OXford 7-2220
  C. C. Burns                         General Agent Passenger Department
  Omaha 2, Nebr., 1611 Farnam Street                  Phone JAckson 4481
  G. A. Henkens                       General Agent Passenger Department
  Ottumwa, Iowa, “_Milwaukee_” Station, Jefferson St.          Phone 776
  I. R. Carlson                               Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Philadelphia 9, Pa., 123 S. Broad Street,    Phones Pennypacker 5-0407
                                                                  and 08
  T. A. Morgan                                             General Agent
  Pittsburgh 22, Pa., 518-519 Oliver Bldg.     Phones Atlantic 1-2438-39
  F. W. Baker                                              General Agent
  Portland 4, Ore., 528 S. W. Yamhill St.             Phone Atwater 0204
  E. E. White                                              General Agent
  Racine, Wis., Union Station, 607 Park Ave.        Phone Jackson 4-7333
  W. E. Ernst                            City Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Rapid City, S. D., “_Milwaukee_” Station, 307 Seventh St.    Phone 454
  L. H. Shuck                                 Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Rockford, Ill., 625 South Main Street                Phone Main 4-3381
  L. E. Martin                                             General Agent
  Rock Island, Ill., “_Milwaukee_” Station, 1st Ave. & 17th St.    Phone
                                                                     779
  W. E. Biggs                                 Passenger and Ticket Agent
  St. Louis 1, Mo., 611 Olive Street                 Phone Chestnut 0337
  H. E. Ridenour                                           General Agent
  St. Paul 1, Minn., Minnesota Bldg.                    Phone Cedar 4491
  P. J. Nikolai                       General Agent Passenger Department
  Salt Lake City 1, Utah, 310-311 Dooly Building            Phone 3-4184
  J. G. MacDonald                                          General Agent
  San Francisco 5, Calif., 681 Market Street        Phone DOuglas 2-4912
  A. Tansley                                    District Passenger Agent
  Seattle 1, Wash., 306 Union St.                       Phone Eliot 6800
  R. E. Schaffert                     General Agent Passenger Department
  Sioux City 1, Iowa, “_Milwaukee_” Station, 2nd & Pierce Sts.     Phone
                                                                  8-0511
  T. L. Ericson                                     Station Ticket Agent
  Sioux Falls, S. D., “_Milwaukee_” Station,
      6th St. & Phillips Ave.                               Phone 4-5547
  J. D. Wohlenberg                                         General Agent
  Spokane 1, Wash., North One Post Street                Phone Main 2261
  J. G. Cain                                    District Passenger Agent
  Tacoma 2, Wash., 112 South Ninth Street                Phone Main 2101
  M. P. Burns                                   District Passenger Agent
  O. R. Powels, “_Milwaukee_” Sta., S. 25th & A Sts.      Station Ticket
                                                                   Agent
  Terre Haute, Ind., 300 Rea Bldg.                   Phone Crawford 2852
  C. P. Cassidy                                 Division Passenger Agent
  Toronto 1, Ont., 68 Yonge Street                   Phone EMpire 8-6538
  R. S. Moore                                              General Agent
  Tulsa 3, Okla., 321 S. Boston Street                      Phone 2-9921
  H. A. Washburn                                        Commercial Agent
  Vancouver 2, B. C., 793 Granville Street             Phone MArine 8177
  E. C. Chapman                                            General Agent
  Victoria, B. C., 612 View St.                        Phone Beacon 7254
  C. E. Blaney, Jr.                                                Agent
  Washington 5, D. C., 310 Sheraton Bldg.      Phones REpublic 7-1038-39
  J. B. Cunningham                              District Passenger Agent
  Wausau, Wis., “_Milwaukee_” Station, 739 Grant St.          Phone 5166
  A. W. Schulz                                Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Winnepeg, Man., 211 Portage Avenue                       Phone 925-753
  J. H. Bradley                                            General Agent
  Winona, Minn., “_Milwaukee_” Station, Mark and Center Sts.  Phone 4062
  L. M. Petrie                                Passenger and Ticket Agent
  Winston-Salem 3, N. C., 403 N. Main Street                  Phone 6502
  R. E. Anderson                               Traveling Passenger Agent

    WM. WALLACE, Assistant Passenger Traffic Manager, Chicago 6, Ill.
        O. R. ANDERSON, General Passenger Agent, Seattle 1, Wash.
        H. SENGSTACKEN, Passenger Traffic Manager, Chicago 6, Ill.
                            the Milwaukee Road
                                                       PRINTED IN U.S.A.

  _Photographs illustrate the latest Olympian_ Hiawatha _equipment
including new Super Dome car and the Skytop Lounge. Super Dome with Cafe
Lounge on lower deck is open to all—no extra charge. Whether you travel
in private-room cars, in thrifty Touralux sleepers or leg rest coaches,
you’ll enjoy Milwaukee Road hospitality._

                           _the Milwaukee Road_

  [Illustration: ]




                           Transcriber’s Notes


--Included publication information from the printed pamphlet: the
  original is public domain in the country of publication.

--Silently corrected a few palpable typos.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Yellowstone via Gallatin Gateway
Montana, by Milwaukee Road Corporation

